#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass book
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{fontspec}
\usepackage{xunicode}
\usepackage{xltxtra}
\usepackage{indentfirst}
\usepackage{xeCJK}
\setmainfont{Times New Roman}
\setCJKmainfont{WenQuanYi Zen Hei}
\setCJKmonofont{WenQuanYi Zen Hei}% 设置缺省中文字体
\setlength{\parindent}{2em}
%\parindent 2em   %段首缩进
\XeTeXlinebreaklocale “zh”
%\XeTeXlinebreakskip = 0pt plus 1pt minus 0.1pt
%\newcommand\Helvetica{\fontspec {Helvetica}}

\usepackage{listings}
\usepackage{color}
\usepackage{xcolor}
\lstset{numbers=left,
numberstyle=\tiny,
keywordstyle=\color{blue!70}, commentstyle=\color{red!50!green!50!blue!50},
frame=single,
rulesepcolor=\color{red!20!green!20!blue!20}
}
\lstset{breaklines}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language chinese-simplified
\language_package auto
\inputencoding utf8
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format pdf4
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered true
\pdf_bookmarksopen false
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 2
\pdf_breaklinks false
\pdf_pdfborder false
\pdf_colorlinks false
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
C/C++ 不容易发觉的坑
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Lihai
\end_layout

\begin_layout Chapter
数据类型的隐式转换
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
枚举类型到底是什么类型
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
首先看一个例子：
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
lstinputlisting[language=c++]{src/enum_test.cpp}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
是不是觉得这个输出结果应该都相同，都是f0000，但是结果和想象的不一样，执行出来的结果是：
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
A = f0000 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
B>>12 = ffff0000 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
C = f0000 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
这个结果让人有点想不到明白，为什么高位都会被补1了呢，难道是溢出了，但是算了一下也没有溢出。
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
那么问题就可能出现在隐式转换上面，这个枚举类型在运算的过程中可能会被转换成什么呢，通过查找ISO C的标准
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quotation
Usual Arirlmetric Conversions: 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quotation
First, if either operand has type long double.
 the other operand is convened to long double.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quotation
Otherwise, if either operand has type double, the other operand is convened
 to double.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quotation
Otherwise.
 if either operand has type float, the other operand is convened to float.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quotation
Otherwise.
 the integral promotions are performed on both operands.
 Then the following rules are applied: If either operand has type unsigned
 long int, the other operand is convened to unsigned long int.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quotation
Otherwise.
 if onr operand has type long int and the other has type unsigned int.
 if a long int can represent all values of an unsigned int.
 the operand of type unsigned int is converted to long int; if a long int
 cannot represent all the values of an unsigned int, both operands are convened
 to unsigned long int 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quotation
Otherwise.
 it rithcr operand has type long int, the other operand is converted to
 long int 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quotation
Otherwisc.
 if either operand has type unsigned int.
 the other operand is convened t o unsigned int 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quotation
Otherwise both operands have type int.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
从上面的内容来说，这边的枚举类型应该是在运算的时候被转换成了int型，但是这边还有一个比较让人疑惑的地方就是C的输出也是经过移位运算的，但是结果没有改变，也就是
在这个过程中没有发生隐式转换。可以发现隐式转换的产生是在赋值运算之后，也就是在赋值之前，任何变量都是保持原有的类型。
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
label "1"
key "1"

\end_inset

ANSI/ISO 9899-1990 American National Stanard for Programming Languages-C
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
label "2"
key "2"

\end_inset

GB/T 15272-94 中华人民共和国国家标准 程序设计语言 C
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
